CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Annolid
Thank you for your interest in contributing to Annolid! Before you begin writing code, please share your intention whether it's:

- Reporting a bug
- Discussing the current state of the code
- Submitting a fix
- Proposing new features
- Becoming a maintainer

## Developing Annolid
We use github to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.
Detailed instructions for installing Annolid is here https://annolid.com. 

## All Code Changes Happen Through Pull Requests
Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. We actively welcome your pull requests:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `main`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. Issue that pull request!

## Any contributions you make will be under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License
In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/) that covers the project.
 Feel free to contact the maintainers if that's a concern.

## Report bugs using Github's [issues](https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid/issues)
We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Report a bug by [opening a new issue]()

## Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code
**Great Bug Reports** tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can.
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens

## License
By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License noted above.

## References
This document was adapted from the open-source contribution guidelines for [Facebook's Draft](https://github.com/facebook/draft-js/blob/a9316a723f9e918afde44dea68b5f9f39b7d9b00/CONTRIBUTING.md) and https://gist.github.com/briandk/3d2e8b3ec8daf5a27a62

Commit message:

Docs: add Jupyter Book + GitHub Pages publishing guide
Add updating_jupyter_book_and_github_pages.md with build + publish steps
Update CONTRIBUTING.md to point contributors to the website repo and guide

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Annolid
Thank you for your interest in contributing to Annolid! Before you begin writing code, please share your intention whether it's:

- Reporting a bug
- Discussing the current state of the code
- Submitting a fix
- Proposing new features
- Becoming a maintainer

## Developing Annolid
We use github to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.
Detailed instructions for installing Annolid is here https://annolid.com. 

## Updating the website / Jupyter Book
The Annolid website + Jupyter Book is deployed from `https://github.com/healthonrails/healthonrails.github.io`. See `docs/updating_jupyter_book_and_github_pages.md` for the build + publish workflow.

## All Code Changes Happen Through Pull Requests
Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. We actively welcome your pull requests:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `main`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. Issue that pull request!

## Any contributions you make will be under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License
In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/) that covers the project.
 Feel free to contact the maintainers if that's a concern.

## Report bugs using Github's [issues](https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid/issues)
We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Report a bug by [opening a new issue]()

## Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code
**Great Bug Reports** tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can.
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens

## License
By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License noted above.

## References
This document was adapted from the open-source contribution guidelines for [Facebook's Draft](https://github.com/facebook/draft-js/blob/a9316a723f9e918afde44dea68b5f9f39b7d9b00/CONTRIBUTING.md) and https://gist.github.com/briandk/3d2e8b3ec8daf5a27a62
