docs/source/agent_tools.md, before:

# Agent Tools Developer Guide

This guide covers how to add a new agent tool, how artifacts are laid out on disk,
and how caching works for agent runs.

## How to add a tool

1. **Define the tool** by extending the base class in `annolid/core/agent/tools/base.py`:

   - Implement `run(self, ctx, payload)` with your core logic.
   - Use `ctx.results_dir` and `ctx.run_id` to derive stable outputs.
   - Use `ctx.artifact_store` if you want to persist artifacts and participate in caching.

2. **Register the tool** in the registry:

   - Add a new tool wrapper in `annolid/core/agent/tools/`.
   - Export it from `annolid/core/agent/tools/__init__.py`.
   - Register it with `ToolRegistry` (see `annolid/core/agent/tools/registry.py`).

3. **Integrate with the runner** (Phase 4+):

   - Compose tools using the registry and a pipeline definition.
   - Ensure inputs/outputs follow the unified data models in `base.py`.

4. **Write a minimal test**:

   - Use tiny inputs and validate outputs.
   - Prefer tests under `tests/` that don’t require large external models.

## Artifact layout

Artifacts are stored per video results directory and organized as:

- `<results_dir>/`
  - `agent.ndjson` (default agent output)
  - `<video_name>_000000000.json` + per-frame LabelMe JSON
  - `.agent_runs/<run_id>/` (run-scoped artifacts)
  - `.cache/agent_cache.json` (cache metadata for re-run reuse)

The `FileArtifactStore` resolves paths relative to:

- **Run artifacts**: `.agent_runs/<run_id>/...`
- **Cache artifacts**: `.cache/...`

See `annolid/core/agent/tools/artifacts.py` for helpers.

## Caching semantics

Agent runs compute a **content hash** from:

- video path + filesystem stats (size/mtime),
- behavior spec (full schema),
- run config (stride, max frames, etc.),
- model identifiers,
- output NDJSON name.

If the cache hash matches and both the NDJSON and annotation store exist,
the service returns cached results without re-running the agent.

To disable reuse from the CLI, run:

```
annolid-run agent --no-cache ...
```

## Citation management tools

Annolid includes built-in BibTeX tooling for paper citation workflows:

- CLI:
  - `annolid-run citations-list --bib-file refs.bib [--query ...]`
  - `annolid-run citations-upsert --bib-file refs.bib --key mykey --title ... --author ... --year ...`
  - `annolid-run citations-remove --bib-file refs.bib --key mykey`
  - `annolid-run citations-format --bib-file refs.bib`
- Agent function tools:
  - `bibtex_list_entries`
  - `bibtex_upsert_entry`
  - `bibtex_remove_entry`
  - `gui_save_citation` (save from active PDF/web viewer context)

Examples in Annolid Bot message input:

- `save citation`
- `list citations`
- `list citations from references.bib for annolid`
- `save citation from pdf as annolid2024 to references.bib`
- `save citation from web`
- `add citation @article{yang2024annolid, title={Annolid: Annotate, Segment, and Track Anything You Need}, author={Yang, Chen and Cleland, Thomas A}, journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18690}, year={2024}}`
- `save citation from web with strict validation`
- `save citation from pdf without validation`
- `open threejs example two mice`
- `open threejs example brain`
- `open threejs html /tmp/annolid_threejs_examples/two_mice.html`
- `open threejs https://example.org/viewer.html`

Default behavior:

- `save citation` first attempts Google Scholar BibTeX lookup from the active paper context, then falls back to Crossref/OpenAlex when needed, and saves the merged entry to `.bib`.

GUI workflow:

- In Annolid Bot input toolbar, click `📚` to open the citation manager.
- Manage a `.bib` file, save citations from active PDF/web context, choose auto-validation or strict mode, view/edit a `Source` column (URL or PDF path), edit rows inline with year/DOI checks, and remove selected entries.

See also: `docs/source/citations_tutorial.md` for a full user tutorial.

## Three.js bot tools

Annolid Bot supports direct Three.js viewer control in GUI sessions.

- Function tools:
  - `gui_open_threejs(path_or_url)`
  - `gui_open_threejs_example(example_id)`
- Built-in example IDs:
  - `two_mice_html` (default)
  - `brain_viewer_html`
  - `helix_points_csv`
  - `wave_surface_obj`
  - `sphere_points_ply`

The bot recognizes natural-language commands such as `open threejs example ...`.

## Realtime camera snapshot + email

Annolid Bot can capture a snapshot from a camera stream and send it by email.

- Stream snapshot:
  - Use `gui_check_stream_source` with `save_snapshot=true`.
  - Snapshot files are saved under `.annolid/workspace/camera_snapshots/`.
- Email with attachments:
  - Use the `email` tool with:
    - `to`
    - `subject`
    - `content`
    - optional `attachment_paths` (list of local file paths)

Example bot intent:

- `check wireless camera, save a snapshot, and email it to user@example.com`

Commit message:

feat(agent): add camera_snapshot tool and harden snapshot+email workflow
add camera_snapshot function tool for non-GUI camera probing and snapshot capture
unwrap Outlook Safe Links camera URLs and normalize stream sources before probing
register camera_snapshot in nanobot/builtin tool exports and tool policy video profile
improve GUI stream-check email flow with recipient validation and explicit skip/failure reasons
update camera realtime skill/docs for GUI vs non-GUI snapshot-email paths
add tests for camera snapshot tool, stream/email validation, and tool registration

docs/source/agent_tools.md, after:

# Agent Tools Developer Guide

This guide covers how to add a new agent tool, how artifacts are laid out on disk,
and how caching works for agent runs.

## How to add a tool

1. **Define the tool** by extending the base class in `annolid/core/agent/tools/base.py`:

   - Implement `run(self, ctx, payload)` with your core logic.
   - Use `ctx.results_dir` and `ctx.run_id` to derive stable outputs.
   - Use `ctx.artifact_store` if you want to persist artifacts and participate in caching.

2. **Register the tool** in the registry:

   - Add a new tool wrapper in `annolid/core/agent/tools/`.
   - Export it from `annolid/core/agent/tools/__init__.py`.
   - Register it with `ToolRegistry` (see `annolid/core/agent/tools/registry.py`).

3. **Integrate with the runner** (Phase 4+):

   - Compose tools using the registry and a pipeline definition.
   - Ensure inputs/outputs follow the unified data models in `base.py`.

4. **Write a minimal test**:

   - Use tiny inputs and validate outputs.
   - Prefer tests under `tests/` that don’t require large external models.

## Artifact layout

Artifacts are stored per video results directory and organized as:

- `<results_dir>/`
  - `agent.ndjson` (default agent output)
  - `<video_name>_000000000.json` + per-frame LabelMe JSON
  - `.agent_runs/<run_id>/` (run-scoped artifacts)
  - `.cache/agent_cache.json` (cache metadata for re-run reuse)

The `FileArtifactStore` resolves paths relative to:

- **Run artifacts**: `.agent_runs/<run_id>/...`
- **Cache artifacts**: `.cache/...`

See `annolid/core/agent/tools/artifacts.py` for helpers.

## Caching semantics

Agent runs compute a **content hash** from:

- video path + filesystem stats (size/mtime),
- behavior spec (full schema),
- run config (stride, max frames, etc.),
- model identifiers,
- output NDJSON name.

If the cache hash matches and both the NDJSON and annotation store exist,
the service returns cached results without re-running the agent.

To disable reuse from the CLI, run:

```
annolid-run agent --no-cache ...
```

## Citation management tools

Annolid includes built-in BibTeX tooling for paper citation workflows:

- CLI:
  - `annolid-run citations-list --bib-file refs.bib [--query ...]`
  - `annolid-run citations-upsert --bib-file refs.bib --key mykey --title ... --author ... --year ...`
  - `annolid-run citations-remove --bib-file refs.bib --key mykey`
  - `annolid-run citations-format --bib-file refs.bib`
- Agent function tools:
  - `bibtex_list_entries`
  - `bibtex_upsert_entry`
  - `bibtex_remove_entry`
  - `gui_save_citation` (save from active PDF/web viewer context)

Examples in Annolid Bot message input:

- `save citation`
- `list citations`
- `list citations from references.bib for annolid`
- `save citation from pdf as annolid2024 to references.bib`
- `save citation from web`
- `add citation @article{yang2024annolid, title={Annolid: Annotate, Segment, and Track Anything You Need}, author={Yang, Chen and Cleland, Thomas A}, journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18690}, year={2024}}`
- `save citation from web with strict validation`
- `save citation from pdf without validation`
- `open threejs example two mice`
- `open threejs example brain`
- `open threejs html /tmp/annolid_threejs_examples/two_mice.html`
- `open threejs https://example.org/viewer.html`

Default behavior:

- `save citation` first attempts Google Scholar BibTeX lookup from the active paper context, then falls back to Crossref/OpenAlex when needed, and saves the merged entry to `.bib`.

GUI workflow:

- In Annolid Bot input toolbar, click `📚` to open the citation manager.
- Manage a `.bib` file, save citations from active PDF/web context, choose auto-validation or strict mode, view/edit a `Source` column (URL or PDF path), edit rows inline with year/DOI checks, and remove selected entries.

See also: `docs/source/citations_tutorial.md` for a full user tutorial.

## Three.js bot tools

Annolid Bot supports direct Three.js viewer control in GUI sessions.

- Function tools:
  - `gui_open_threejs(path_or_url)`
  - `gui_open_threejs_example(example_id)`
- Built-in example IDs:
  - `two_mice_html` (default)
  - `brain_viewer_html`
  - `helix_points_csv`
  - `wave_surface_obj`
  - `sphere_points_ply`

The bot recognizes natural-language commands such as `open threejs example ...`.

## Realtime camera snapshot + email

Annolid Bot can capture a snapshot from a camera stream and send it by email.

- Stream snapshot:
  - GUI sessions: use `gui_check_stream_source` with `save_snapshot=true`.
  - Non-GUI channels (for example email/IM): use `camera_snapshot`.
  - Snapshot files are saved under `.annolid/workspace/camera_snapshots/`.
  - Outlook Safe Links camera URLs are automatically unwrapped to the original stream URL.
- Email with attachments:
  - Use the `email` tool with:
    - `to`
    - `subject`
    - `content`
    - optional `attachment_paths` (list of local file paths)

Example bot intent:

- `check wireless camera, save a snapshot, and email it to user@example.com`
