docs/source/faqs.md, before:

# FAQs

## Threshold based object segmentation
Added track bars for users to select HSV values to
segment ROIs in the provided video.
```bash
python annolid/main.py -v /path/to/my_video.mp4 --segmentation=threshold
```
![Threshold based segmentation](../imgs/threshold_based_segmentation.png)

## Convert WMV format to mp4 format using ffmpeg
```bash
ffmpeg -i /path/to/my_video.wmv -c:a aac /path/to/my_video.mp4
```

## Save the extracted frames to a user selected output directory
If not selected, it will save the extracted frames to a folder named with the video name without extension. For example, if the input video path is /path/to/my_video.mp4, the extracted frames will be saved in the folder /path/to/my_video.
The output directory is provided, the extracted frames will be saved /path/to/dest/my_video.
```bash
cd annolid
python main.py -v /path/to/my_video.mp4 --extract_frames=20 --to /path/to/dest --algo=uniform
```

## How to track multiple objects in the video?
YOLO-based tracking has been removed from Annolid.

## How to convert labelme labeled dataset to COCO format?
:warning: You might need to reinstall annolid because it requires `labelme`
and `pycocotools` now.
```bash
cd annold
python main.py --labelme2coco=/path/to/my_labeled_images --to /path/to/my_dataset_coco --labels=/path/to/my_labels.txt --vis=True
```
If vis is true, it will create an additional visualization folder.
The dataset is structured as follows.
```
../../datasets/mydataset_coco/
├── data.yaml
├── train
│   ├── annotations.json
│   └── JPEGImages
│       ├── 00000444.jpg
└── valid
    ├── annotations.json
    └── JPEGImages
        ├── 00000443.jpg
```

![Visualization](../imgs/00002895_7.jpg)

An example mask file

![Masks](../imgs/00002895_7_mask.png)

## Convert the tracking results csv file to Glitter2 csv format
The result csv file named as tracking_results_nix.csv in the folder as provided in --to option.
```
python annolid/main.py -v /path/to/my_video.mkv --tracks2glitter /path/to/tracking_results.csv --to /path/to/results_dir/
```

## Convert the keypoint annotations to labelme format
e.g. [DeepLabCut Mouse dataset](https://github.com/DeepLabCut/Primer-MotionCapture/tree/master/mouse_m7s3)

```bash
python annolid/main.py --keypoints2labelme /path/to/mouse_m7s3/  --keypoints /path/to/mouse_m7s3/CollectedData_xxxx.h5

```
![Example](../imgs/mouse_keypoints.png)

Commit message:

feat(coco): add strict keypoints export mode and improve COCO conversion UX
- Refactor labelme2coco conversion for clearer COCO-compliant outputs
- Add output_mode support:
  - segmentation (default, backward compatible)
  - keypoints (strict COCO pose annotations with keypoints/num_keypoints)
- Improve conversion progress reporting, including keypoints-mode staged updates
  to avoid frozen/unusable progress behavior
- Update COCO export GUI dialog:
  - cleaner layout and validation
  - mode selection (Segmentation vs Keypoints)
  - better defaults and summary feedback
- Update workflow/menu wiring for the new mode
- Fix dataset wizard COCO export to consume conversion generator and report progress
- Add/expand tests for LabelMe->COCO conversion, including keypoints mode
- Update user docs/FAQ for the new conversion workflow and mode options

docs/source/faqs.md, after:

# FAQs

## Threshold based object segmentation
Added track bars for users to select HSV values to
segment ROIs in the provided video.
```bash
python annolid/main.py -v /path/to/my_video.mp4 --segmentation=threshold
```
![Threshold based segmentation](../imgs/threshold_based_segmentation.png)

## Convert WMV format to mp4 format using ffmpeg
```bash
ffmpeg -i /path/to/my_video.wmv -c:a aac /path/to/my_video.mp4
```

## Save the extracted frames to a user selected output directory
If not selected, it will save the extracted frames to a folder named with the video name without extension. For example, if the input video path is /path/to/my_video.mp4, the extracted frames will be saved in the folder /path/to/my_video.
The output directory is provided, the extracted frames will be saved /path/to/dest/my_video.
```bash
cd annolid
python main.py -v /path/to/my_video.mp4 --extract_frames=20 --to /path/to/dest --algo=uniform
```

## How to track multiple objects in the video?
YOLO-based tracking has been removed from Annolid.

## How to convert labelme labeled dataset to COCO format?
Use the GUI export dialog:

1. Open Annolid.
2. Go to **Convert -> LabelMe -> COCO**.
3. Select your LabelMe annotation directory.
4. Optionally set output directory and labels file.
5. Choose train split and output mode (Segmentation or Keypoints), then click **OK**.

You can also run the CLI:

```bash
python annolid/main.py \
  --labelme2coco=/path/to/my_labeled_images \
  --to /path/to/my_dataset_coco \
  --labels=/path/to/my_labels.txt
```

The dataset is structured as:

```
../../datasets/mydataset_coco/
├── data.yaml
├── annotations_train.json
├── annotations_valid.json
├── train
│   ├── annotations.json
│   └── JPEGImages
│       ├── 00000444.jpg
└── valid
    ├── annotations.json
    └── JPEGImages
        ├── 00000443.jpg
```

## Convert the tracking results csv file to Glitter2 csv format
The result csv file named as tracking_results_nix.csv in the folder as provided in --to option.
```
python annolid/main.py -v /path/to/my_video.mkv --tracks2glitter /path/to/tracking_results.csv --to /path/to/results_dir/
```

## Convert the keypoint annotations to labelme format
e.g. [DeepLabCut Mouse dataset](https://github.com/DeepLabCut/Primer-MotionCapture/tree/master/mouse_m7s3)

```bash
python annolid/main.py --keypoints2labelme /path/to/mouse_m7s3/  --keypoints /path/to/mouse_m7s3/CollectedData_xxxx.h5

```
![Example](../imgs/mouse_keypoints.png)
