docs/source/install.md, before:

# Install Annolid

## Requirements
- Ubuntu / macOS / Windows
- Python >= 3.10
- `ffmpeg` (recommended for robust video decoding)

## Set up Conda environment
To run Annolid, we suggest using Conda. Download and install [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual) (or Miniconda), then:
```
# For MacOS or Linux
conda create -n annolid-env python=3.11
conda activate annolid-env
conda install -c conda-forge git ffmpeg
```
On Windows, run the same commands in Anaconda Prompt/PowerShell.

## Install ffmpeg

`conda install -c conda-forge ffmpeg`

## Install Annolid
Clone the code repo from Github, change into the new directory, and install
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid.git
cd annolid

# install the package (be sure to include the space and the period after the -e)
pip install -e .
```
Install [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) (for example with `conda install -c conda-forge ffmpeg`) to ensure OpenCV can decode a wide range of video formats during playback.

## Windows: pycocotools
If you encounter errors on Windows for `pycocotools`, please download and install Visual Studio 2019 from the link below:
https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=Community&rel=16

Then please run the following command in your terminal.
`pip install "git+https://github.com/philferriere/cocoapi.git#egg=pycocotools&subdirectory=PythonAPI"`

## Linux: Qt "xcb" plugin error
To fix the error `"Failed to load platform plugin \"xcb\""` while launching the Qt app on Linux:

`sudo apt install --reinstall libxcb-xinerama0`

## Launch Annolid
Typing "annolid" will bring up the Annolid GUI, which is based on the excellent [LabelMe](https://github.com/wkentaro/labelme) package.
```bash
# be sure to activate the annolid virtual environment every time you restart Anaconda; the conda shell prompt should read "(annolid)"
conda activate annolid-env
# then start Annolid (a GUI window will appear)
annolid

# Optionally, you can use a predefined label.txt file as follows.
annolid --labels=/path/to/labels_custom.txt
```

## Agent Safety Defaults and Rollback Operations

Annolid agent update operations are conservative by default:

- Update commands are dry-run unless `--execute` is set.
- Signature enforcement is optional and explicit via `--require-signature`.
- Post-checks run by default after execute; disable only when needed with `--skip-post-check`.
- Rollback plans are always generated before apply.

Common operator commands:

- Check staged update plan:
  `annolid-run update check --channel stable`
- Stage update run (dry-run):
  `annolid-run update run --channel stable`
- Execute update:
  `annolid-run update run --channel stable --execute`
- Execute rollback:
  `annolid-run update rollback --install-mode package --previous-version 1.2.3 --execute`

Self-improving vs self-updating model:

- Self-improving:
  tune skills and memory (`annolid-run agent skills refresh`, `annolid-run agent memory flush`).
- Self-updating:
  change installed software with update manager and rollback controls.

## Install Detectron2 locally

**Note**: if you intend to process your tagged videos using Google Colab (which you should do unless you are using a workstation with a higher-end GPU), then **you do not need to install Detectron2 on your local machine**, and you can ignore the following steps.

### Requirements
- Windows, Linux or macOS with Python ≥ 3.10
- PyTorch ≥ 1.5 and [torchvision](https://github.com/pytorch/vision/) that matches the PyTorch installation.
  Install them together at [pytorch.org](https://pytorch.org) to make sure of this.
  Presently, the combination of torch 1.8 and torchvision 0.9.1 works well, along with pyyaml 5.3, as shown below.
  For purposes of using Annolid, it is OK to downgrade pyyaml from its current version to 5.3.

### Install Detectron2 dependencies:
```
pip install pyyaml==5.3
pip install pycocotools>=2.0.1
pip install torch==1.9.0+cu102 torchvision==0.10.0+cu102 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html

```
### Install Detectron2:
See [https://detectron2.readthedocs.io/tutorials/install.html](https://detectron2.readthedocs.io/tutorials/install.html) for further information.
```
import torch
assert torch.__version__.startswith("1.9")
pip install detectron2 -f https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/detectron2/wheels/cu102/torch1.9/index.html

### Install Detectron2 on Windows 10

`git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2.git`
`cd detectron2`
`pip install -e .`

```
Note. If you encounter an error  on windows with message says:

`
in _run_ninja_build
raise RuntimeError(message)
RuntimeError: Error compiling objects for extension
`
Please go to the link https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/the-latest-supported-visual-c-downloads-2647da03-1eea-4433-9aff-95f26a218cc0
and  download `x64: vc_redist.x64.exe`.
Please click and install it.
After restart, you can cd to detectron2 folder and run the following command.
`pip install -e .`.

## Install Detectron2 on Google Colab
Instructions will be posted here presently.  (Colab uses CUDA 10.2 + torch 1.9.0).
<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/healthonrails/annolid/blob/master/docs/tutorials/Annolid_on_Detectron2_Tutorial.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>

## Optional: Install older version of Pytorch for YOLACT
Note: YOLACT models are less accurate comparing to Mask-RCNN in Detectron2. However, it is faster in terms of inference.
```
# DCNv2 will not work if Pytorch is greater than 1.4.0
!pip install torchvision==0.5.0
!pip install torch==1.4.0
```
For more information, please check https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid/blob/master/docs/tutorials/Train_networks_tutorial_v1.0.1.ipynb and https://github.com/healthonrails/yolac.

Commit message:

feat(agent): enforce signed artifacts and operator-gated update execution
add centralized security policy helpers for production/runtime guards
enforce signed update manifests in production-mode update staging
add signature validation for non-builtin skill artifacts during registry load
require explicit operator consent phrase for bot-triggered update.run with execute=true
expand governance/audit logging for skill install outcomes and update-block events
update operator docs for signature defaults and update consent behavior
add test coverage for signed-skill validation, signed-update enforcement, and consent-gated update execution

docs/source/install.md, after:

# Install Annolid

## Requirements
- Ubuntu / macOS / Windows
- Python >= 3.10
- `ffmpeg` (recommended for robust video decoding)

## Set up Conda environment
To run Annolid, we suggest using Conda. Download and install [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual) (or Miniconda), then:
```
# For MacOS or Linux
conda create -n annolid-env python=3.11
conda activate annolid-env
conda install -c conda-forge git ffmpeg
```
On Windows, run the same commands in Anaconda Prompt/PowerShell.

## Install ffmpeg

`conda install -c conda-forge ffmpeg`

## Install Annolid
Clone the code repo from Github, change into the new directory, and install
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid.git
cd annolid

# install the package (be sure to include the space and the period after the -e)
pip install -e .
```
Install [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) (for example with `conda install -c conda-forge ffmpeg`) to ensure OpenCV can decode a wide range of video formats during playback.

## Windows: pycocotools
If you encounter errors on Windows for `pycocotools`, please download and install Visual Studio 2019 from the link below:
https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=Community&rel=16

Then please run the following command in your terminal.
`pip install "git+https://github.com/philferriere/cocoapi.git#egg=pycocotools&subdirectory=PythonAPI"`

## Linux: Qt "xcb" plugin error
To fix the error `"Failed to load platform plugin \"xcb\""` while launching the Qt app on Linux:

`sudo apt install --reinstall libxcb-xinerama0`

## Launch Annolid
Typing "annolid" will bring up the Annolid GUI, which is based on the excellent [LabelMe](https://github.com/wkentaro/labelme) package.
```bash
# be sure to activate the annolid virtual environment every time you restart Anaconda; the conda shell prompt should read "(annolid)"
conda activate annolid-env
# then start Annolid (a GUI window will appear)
annolid

# Optionally, you can use a predefined label.txt file as follows.
annolid --labels=/path/to/labels_custom.txt
```

## Agent Safety Defaults and Rollback Operations

Annolid agent update operations are conservative by default:

- Update commands are dry-run unless `--execute` is set.
- Signature enforcement can be requested via `--require-signature` in any mode.
- In production mode (`ANNOLID_PRODUCTION_MODE=1` or `ANNOLID_ENV=production`), signature enforcement is automatic.
- Post-checks run by default after execute; disable only when needed with `--skip-post-check`.
- Rollback plans are always generated before apply.

Common operator commands:

- Check staged update plan:
  `annolid-run update check --channel stable`
- Stage update run (dry-run):
  `annolid-run update run --channel stable`
- Execute update:
  `annolid-run update run --channel stable --execute`
- Execute rollback:
  `annolid-run update rollback --install-mode package --previous-version 1.2.3 --execute`

Self-improving vs self-updating model:

- Self-improving:
  tune skills and memory (`annolid-run agent skills refresh`, `annolid-run agent memory flush`).
- Self-updating:
  change installed software with update manager and rollback controls.

## Install Detectron2 locally

**Note**: if you intend to process your tagged videos using Google Colab (which you should do unless you are using a workstation with a higher-end GPU), then **you do not need to install Detectron2 on your local machine**, and you can ignore the following steps.

### Requirements
- Windows, Linux or macOS with Python ≥ 3.10
- PyTorch ≥ 1.5 and [torchvision](https://github.com/pytorch/vision/) that matches the PyTorch installation.
  Install them together at [pytorch.org](https://pytorch.org) to make sure of this.
  Presently, the combination of torch 1.8 and torchvision 0.9.1 works well, along with pyyaml 5.3, as shown below.
  For purposes of using Annolid, it is OK to downgrade pyyaml from its current version to 5.3.

### Install Detectron2 dependencies:
```
pip install pyyaml==5.3
pip install pycocotools>=2.0.1
pip install torch==1.9.0+cu102 torchvision==0.10.0+cu102 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html

```
### Install Detectron2:
See [https://detectron2.readthedocs.io/tutorials/install.html](https://detectron2.readthedocs.io/tutorials/install.html) for further information.
```
import torch
assert torch.__version__.startswith("1.9")
pip install detectron2 -f https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/detectron2/wheels/cu102/torch1.9/index.html

### Install Detectron2 on Windows 10

`git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2.git`
`cd detectron2`
`pip install -e .`

```
Note. If you encounter an error  on windows with message says:

`
in _run_ninja_build
raise RuntimeError(message)
RuntimeError: Error compiling objects for extension
`
Please go to the link https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/the-latest-supported-visual-c-downloads-2647da03-1eea-4433-9aff-95f26a218cc0
and  download `x64: vc_redist.x64.exe`.
Please click and install it.
After restart, you can cd to detectron2 folder and run the following command.
`pip install -e .`.

## Install Detectron2 on Google Colab
Instructions will be posted here presently.  (Colab uses CUDA 10.2 + torch 1.9.0).
<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/healthonrails/annolid/blob/master/docs/tutorials/Annolid_on_Detectron2_Tutorial.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>

## Optional: Install older version of Pytorch for YOLACT
Note: YOLACT models are less accurate comparing to Mask-RCNN in Detectron2. However, it is faster in terms of inference.
```
# DCNv2 will not work if Pytorch is greater than 1.4.0
!pip install torchvision==0.5.0
!pip install torch==1.4.0
```
For more information, please check https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid/blob/master/docs/tutorials/Train_networks_tutorial_v1.0.1.ipynb and https://github.com/healthonrails/yolac.
