docs/source/read_pdf_with_ai_voice.md, before:

# Read PDFs Aloud with AI Voice (Text-to-Speech)

Annolid includes an integrated PDF viewer with text-to-speech (TTS), so you can open a PDF and have selected text (or whole paragraphs) read aloud.

## Prerequisites

1) Install Annolid (see `install.md`).

2) Install PDF support:
```bash
pip install pymupdf
```

3) Install a TTS backend (pick one):

- Recommended (offline, higher-quality “AI voice”): Kokoro (ONNX)
```bash
pip install kokoro-onnx onnxruntime gdown
```

- Voice cloning (offline, uses a short voice prompt): Chatterbox Turbo (ONNX)
```bash
pip install onnxruntime soundfile
```
Then select `Engine = Chatterbox` and choose a voice prompt audio file in the `PDF Speech` dock (or edit `~/.annolid/tts_settings.json`).

- Language packs for Kokoro when you want Chinese or Japanese voices:
```bash
pip install misaki[zh]  # enables Mandarin (e.g., voice zf_001)
pip install misaki[ja]  # enables Japanese (e.g., voice jf_alpha)
```

- Fallback (online, simpler): Google TTS
```bash
pip install gTTS pydub
```
`pydub` needs `ffmpeg` available on your system.

## Open a PDF in Annolid

1) Launch the GUI:
```bash
annolid
```

2) Go to `File` → `Open PDF...` and pick a `.pdf`.

Annolid switches into PDF view and shows these docks (typically on the right):
- `PDF Speech` (voice / language / speed)
- `PDF Controls` (page + zoom)
- `PDF Reader` (click-to-read mode)

## Option A: Speak a selection (fastest)

This works in both the fallback viewer (image + text panel) and the PDF.js viewer.

1) Select some text (either in the page text panel, or directly on the PDF page).
2) Right-click → `Speak selection`.

## Option B: Click-to-read paragraphs (PDF.js reader mode)

This reads full paragraphs/sentences starting from where you click.

1) In the `PDF Reader` dock, enable `Use PDF.js (required for reader)`.
2) Keep `Enable click-to-read` turned on.
3) Click a paragraph in the PDF page to start reading.
4) Use `Pause/Resume`, `Stop`, `Prev`, `Next` in the same dock.

If the reader says it’s unavailable, install QtWebEngine (`pyqtwebengine` in conda, or `PyQtWebEngine` via pip) and restart Annolid.

## Change voice, language, and speed

Use the `PDF Speech` dock to set:
- `Voice` (example: `af_sarah`)
- `Voice` (Chinese): `zf_001` (requires `misaki[zh]`)
- `Voice` (Japanese): `jf_alpha` (requires `misaki[ja]`)
- `Language` (example: `en-us`)
- `Speed` (0.5–2.0)

These settings persist in `~/.annolid/tts_settings.json`.

## Troubleshooting

- **“PyMuPDF Required” dialog**: run `pip install pymupdf`.
- **No audio output**:
  - Make sure `ANNOLID_DISABLE_AUDIO` is not set.
  - On Linux servers/containers, ensure an audio device is present (or use a desktop machine).
- **First Kokoro run is slow**: Annolid downloads model files into `~/.annolid/kokoro` the first time.
- **gTTS fails**: it requires internet access; also ensure `ffmpeg` is installed for `pydub`.

Commit message:

feat(TTS): Add Pocket TTS support to Annolid
Implement new Pocket TTS agent with voice state caching and threading
Add Pocket TTS engine to TTS router with speed adjustment
Update TTS controls UI with Pocket-specific settings page
Extend TTS settings to include Pocket voice, prompt path, and speed
Add Pocket TTS configuration to LLM settings dialog
Update PDF viewer and caption widgets to support Pocket TTS settings
Add optional pocket_tts dependency to pyproject.toml
Update documentation for Pocket TTS usage
Bump torch version to 2.5.0 in environment files
Add tests for Pocket TTS settings
This adds lightweight, CPU-only TTS with built-in voices and optional voice prompts.

docs/source/read_pdf_with_ai_voice.md, after:

# Read PDFs Aloud with AI Voice (Text-to-Speech)

Annolid includes an integrated PDF viewer with text-to-speech (TTS), so you can open a PDF and have selected text (or whole paragraphs) read aloud.

## Prerequisites

1) Install Annolid (see `install.md`).

2) Install PDF support:
```bash
pip install pymupdf
```

3) Install a TTS backend (pick one):

- Recommended (offline, higher-quality “AI voice”): Kokoro (ONNX)
```bash
pip install kokoro-onnx onnxruntime gdown
```

- Pocket TTS (very lightweight, CPU-only runtime, voices such as `alba`, `marius`, `javert`, `jean`, `fantine`, `cosette`, `eponine`, and `azelma`)
```bash
pip install pocket-tts
```
  Set `Engine = Pocket`, choose one of the built-in voices, or type a custom voice ID / prompt path.
  If you have a short WAV prompt of the desired voice, specify it in the “Pocket prompt” field to clone that tone.
  Use the `Pocket speed` control to speed up or slow down the generated speech (0.5–2.0×).
  (Optional) You can also install via `pip install annolid[pocket_tts]` so the dependency is available automatically.

- Voice cloning (offline, uses a short voice prompt): Chatterbox Turbo (ONNX)
```bash
pip install onnxruntime soundfile
```
Then select `Engine = Chatterbox` and choose a voice prompt audio file in the `PDF Speech` dock (or edit `~/.annolid/tts_settings.json`).

- Language packs for Kokoro when you want Chinese or Japanese voices:
```bash
pip install misaki[zh]  # enables Mandarin (e.g., voice zf_001)
pip install misaki[ja]  # enables Japanese (e.g., voice jf_alpha)
```

- Fallback (online, simpler): Google TTS
```bash
pip install gTTS pydub
```
`pydub` needs `ffmpeg` available on your system.

## Open a PDF in Annolid

1) Launch the GUI:
```bash
annolid
```

2) Go to `File` → `Open PDF...` and pick a `.pdf`.

Annolid switches into PDF view and shows these docks (typically on the right):
- `PDF Speech` (voice / language / speed)
- `PDF Controls` (page + zoom)
- `PDF Reader` (click-to-read mode)

## Option A: Speak a selection (fastest)

This works in both the fallback viewer (image + text panel) and the PDF.js viewer.

1) Select some text (either in the page text panel, or directly on the PDF page).
2) Right-click → `Speak selection`.

## Option B: Click-to-read paragraphs (PDF.js reader mode)

This reads full paragraphs/sentences starting from where you click.

1) In the `PDF Reader` dock, enable `Use PDF.js (required for reader)`.
2) Keep `Enable click-to-read` turned on.
3) Click a paragraph in the PDF page to start reading.
4) Use `Pause/Resume`, `Stop`, `Prev`, `Next` in the same dock.

If the reader says it’s unavailable, install QtWebEngine (`pyqtwebengine` in conda, or `PyQtWebEngine` via pip) and restart Annolid.

## Change voice, language, and speed

Use the `PDF Speech` dock to set:
- `Voice` (example: `af_sarah`)
- `Voice` (Chinese): `zf_001` (requires `misaki[zh]`)
- `Voice` (Japanese): `jf_alpha` (requires `misaki[ja]`)
- `Language` (example: `en-us`)
- `Speed` (0.5–2.0)

These settings persist in `~/.annolid/tts_settings.json`.

## Troubleshooting

- **“PyMuPDF Required” dialog**: run `pip install pymupdf`.
- **No audio output**:
  - Make sure `ANNOLID_DISABLE_AUDIO` is not set.
  - On Linux servers/containers, ensure an audio device is present (or use a desktop machine).
- **First Kokoro run is slow**: Annolid downloads model files into `~/.annolid/kokoro` the first time.
- **gTTS fails**: it requires internet access; also ensure `ffmpeg` is installed for `pydub`.
