annolid/core/agent/skills/camera-realtime/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: Camera Realtime Control
description: Operate camera streams and realtime inference with model selection, status checks, and logging tools.
---

# Camera Realtime Control

Use these tools for camera/video stream setup and realtime inference automation in Annolid.

## Realtime Tools

- `gui_list_realtime_models`: List available realtime model presets before starting.
- `gui_check_stream_source`: Probe camera/stream connectivity before realtime start.
- `gui_start_realtime_stream`: Start realtime stream with source/model/transport and optional bot-report settings.
- `gui_get_realtime_status`: Verify stream is running and inspect active source/model/viewer.
- `gui_list_realtime_logs`: Retrieve detection and bot-event log file paths.
- `gui_stop_realtime_stream`: Stop stream cleanly when done.

## Recommended Flow

1. Call `gui_list_realtime_models` and choose model.
2. Call `gui_check_stream_source` first.
3. Call `gui_start_realtime_stream` with explicit source and `rtsp_transport` (`tcp` for unstable RTSP).
4. Confirm with `gui_get_realtime_status`.
5. For diagnostics, call `gui_list_realtime_logs`.
6. Call `gui_stop_realtime_stream` after analysis.

## Stream Tips

- Local camera: use `camera_source="0"` (or another index).
- RTSP: use full URL and set `rtsp_transport="tcp"` if frames are unstable.
- RTP multicast: use full `rtp://@host:port` source and validate receiver/network path first.

## Bot Reporting Controls

When starting realtime stream, use:

- `bot_report_enabled`
- `bot_report_interval_sec`
- `bot_watch_labels` (CSV or list)
- `bot_email_report`
- `bot_email_to`

Keep reporting intervals conservative (`>=5s`) for high-FPS streams.

Commit message:

feat(agent): add camera_snapshot tool and harden snapshot+email workflow
add camera_snapshot function tool for non-GUI camera probing and snapshot capture
unwrap Outlook Safe Links camera URLs and normalize stream sources before probing
register camera_snapshot in nanobot/builtin tool exports and tool policy video profile
improve GUI stream-check email flow with recipient validation and explicit skip/failure reasons
update camera realtime skill/docs for GUI vs non-GUI snapshot-email paths
add tests for camera snapshot tool, stream/email validation, and tool registration

annolid/core/agent/skills/camera-realtime/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: Camera Realtime Control
description: Operate camera streams and realtime inference with model selection, status checks, and logging tools.
---

# Camera Realtime Control

Use these tools for camera/video stream setup and realtime inference automation in Annolid.

## Realtime Tools

- `gui_list_realtime_models`: List available realtime model presets before starting.
- `gui_check_stream_source`: Probe camera/stream connectivity before realtime start.
- `gui_start_realtime_stream`: Start realtime stream with source/model/transport and optional bot-report settings.
- `gui_get_realtime_status`: Verify stream is running and inspect active source/model/viewer.
- `gui_list_realtime_logs`: Retrieve detection and bot-event log file paths.
- `gui_stop_realtime_stream`: Stop stream cleanly when done.
- `camera_snapshot`: Non-GUI camera probe + snapshot saver for chat/email channels.

## Recommended Flow

1. Call `gui_list_realtime_models` and choose model.
2. Call `gui_check_stream_source` first.
3. Call `gui_start_realtime_stream` with explicit source and `rtsp_transport` (`tcp` for unstable RTSP).
4. Confirm with `gui_get_realtime_status`.
5. For diagnostics, call `gui_list_realtime_logs`.
6. Call `gui_stop_realtime_stream` after analysis.

## Snapshot + Email Workflow

For "check camera, save snapshot, and email it" requests:

1. Call `gui_check_stream_source` with:
   - `camera_source`
   - `save_snapshot=true`
   - `email_to=<recipient>`
   - optional `email_subject`, `email_content`
2. Confirm returned fields:
   - `ok`
   - `snapshot_path`
   - `snapshot_opened_on_canvas`
   - `email_sent`, `email_result`
3. If `ok=false` or `snapshot_path` is empty, report probe failure and do not claim email was sent.

`email_to` should be a valid address. When `email_to` is provided, snapshot capture is required.

## Email/Channel Fallback

When GUI tools are unavailable (for example in email channels):

1. Call `camera_snapshot` with explicit `camera_source`.
2. Use returned `snapshot_path` as `attachment_paths` in the `email` tool.
3. Reply with clear status:
   - snapshot saved path
   - email send result
   - actionable error if either step fails

## Stream Tips

- Local camera: use `camera_source="0"` (or another index).
- RTSP: use full URL and set `rtsp_transport="tcp"` if frames are unstable.
- RTP multicast: use full `rtp://@host:port` source and validate receiver/network path first.

## Bot Reporting Controls

When starting realtime stream, use:

- `bot_report_enabled`
- `bot_report_interval_sec`
- `bot_watch_labels` (CSV or list)
- `bot_email_report`
- `bot_email_to`

Keep reporting intervals conservative (`>=5s`) for high-FPS streams.
