docs/install_with_uv.md, before:

# Installing Annolid with uv

This guide shows how to set up Annolid using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/), Astral's fast drop-in replacement for `pip` and `virtualenv`. The workflow lets you create lightweight environments, install the package editable for development, and reproduce dependencies with a lock file.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.9–3.11 available on your PATH (Annolid targets 3.6+, but newer releases are tested on 3.11).
- `git` for cloning this repository.
- `ffmpeg` (recommended) from your system package manager or Conda.
- `uv` installed. You can grab the standalone binary from Astral or install it into your user site-packages:

```bash
pip install --user uv
```

> **Tip:** On macOS and Linux, place the downloaded binary or the `~/.local/bin` directory on your PATH so the `uv` command is available globally.

## 1. Clone Annolid
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid.git
cd annolid
```

## 2. Create an isolated environment
```bash
uv venv .venv --python 3.11
```

Activate it with:

- macOS/Linux: `source .venv/bin/activate`
- Windows (PowerShell): `.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`

You can reuse this environment on future shells with the same activate command.

## 3. Install Annolid and its dependencies
With the environment active, let `uv` resolve and install everything declared in `pyproject.toml` (including editable mode for development):

```bash
uv pip install -e .
```

This step pulls PyPI wheels plus the bundled Git dependency for Segment Anything HQ. The install may take a few minutes on the first run.

## 4. (Optional) Generate a lock file for reproducible installs
To capture the exact versions resolved on your machine, write them to `uv.lock`:

```bash
uv pip compile pyproject.toml -o uv.lock
```

Share the lock file with teammates, then they can reproduce the environment exactly via:

```bash
uv pip sync uv.lock
```

## 5. Launch Annolid
```bash
annolid
```

If you need behavior logging or segmentation models, drop your trained weights under `annolid/models` or point the GUI to them through the **Model Manager**.

## Updating or rebuilding
- Upgrade dependencies in-place: `uv pip install -U annolid`.
- Recreate a clean environment: remove `.venv`, repeat the steps above, or run `uv pip sync uv.lock` inside the activated venv to match the locked versions.

## Troubleshooting
- **CUDA / GPU builds:** Ensure the appropriate PyTorch build is available. You can pin versions with `uv pip install "torch==2.2.0" "torchvision==0.17.0"` after the main install.
- **Apple Silicon MKL errors:** Use Python 3.11 and let `uv` fetch arm64 wheels. If MKL still loads, set `export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1` or reinstall with `UV_INDEX_URL=https://pypi.org/simple`.
- **FFmpeg / ffprobe missing:** Install FFmpeg (which bundles `ffprobe`) via Homebrew (`brew install ffmpeg`), apt (`sudo apt install ffmpeg`), or conda-forge (`conda install -c conda-forge ffmpeg`). Make sure the binaries are on your PATH (`which ffprobe` should resolve).
- **`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'zmq'`:** Ensure you are installing with the updated `pyproject.toml` that depends on `pyzmq`. If you already have an environment, run `uv pip install pyzmq` inside it and retry `annolid`.
- **`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'ffpyplayer'`:** The GUI’s real-time widgets use ffpyplayer’s video frame utils. Install it with `uv pip install ffpyplayer` or recreate the environment after pulling the updated dependency list.
- **`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'tree_config'`:** Realtime configs rely on `tree-config`. Install it with `uv pip install tree-config` or rebuild the environment after syncing the latest dependencies.
- **Windows + CUDA 12.x ONNX Runtime DLL/import errors:** In the activated environment, run:
  `uv pip install onnxruntime-gpu --extra-index-url https://aiinfra.pkgs.visualstudio.com/PublicPackages/_packaging/onnxruntime-cuda-12/pypi/simple/`
  If CUDA is not 12.x, install CPU ONNX Runtime instead: `uv pip install onnxruntime`.
- **Polygon edges look noisy:** The mask-to-polygon conversion now uses OpenCV’s Douglas–Peucker simplifier. Adjust `approxpoly_epsilon` in `configs/default_config.yaml` if you need smoother (higher value) or more detailed (lower value) outlines.

You're now ready to track behaviors using the Annolid GUI or the CLI tools (`annolid-track`, `annolid-train`) from the activated `uv` environment.

Commit message:

fix(installer): ensure Qt GUI bindings are installed and improve missing-Qt UX #62 Include gui extra by default in install.sh and install.ps1 Validate Qt binding availability during installer verification Add launcher fallback for QtBindingsNotFoundError with actionable install hint Update gui extra markers for Python compatibility (PyQt5 on <3.13, PySide6 on >=3.13) Add regression tests for missing-Qt launcher behavior Update README and install docs to use GUI-enabled install commands

docs/install_with_uv.md, after:

# Installing Annolid with uv

This guide shows how to set up Annolid using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/), Astral's fast drop-in replacement for `pip` and `virtualenv`. The workflow lets you create lightweight environments, install the package editable for development, and reproduce dependencies with a lock file.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.9–3.11 available on your PATH (Annolid targets 3.6+, but newer releases are tested on 3.11).
- `git` for cloning this repository.
- `ffmpeg` (recommended) from your system package manager or Conda.
- `uv` installed. You can grab the standalone binary from Astral or install it into your user site-packages:

```bash
pip install --user uv
```

> **Tip:** On macOS and Linux, place the downloaded binary or the `~/.local/bin` directory on your PATH so the `uv` command is available globally.

## 1. Clone Annolid
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/healthonrails/annolid.git
cd annolid
```

## 2. Create an isolated environment
```bash
uv venv .venv --python 3.11
```

Activate it with:

- macOS/Linux: `source .venv/bin/activate`
- Windows (PowerShell): `.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`

You can reuse this environment on future shells with the same activate command.

## 3. Install Annolid and its dependencies
With the environment active, let `uv` resolve and install everything declared in `pyproject.toml` (including editable mode for development):

```bash
uv pip install -e ".[gui]"
```

This step pulls PyPI wheels plus the bundled Git dependency for Segment Anything HQ. The install may take a few minutes on the first run.

## 4. (Optional) Generate a lock file for reproducible installs
To capture the exact versions resolved on your machine, write them to `uv.lock`:

```bash
uv pip compile pyproject.toml -o uv.lock
```

Share the lock file with teammates, then they can reproduce the environment exactly via:

```bash
uv pip sync uv.lock
```

## 5. Launch Annolid
```bash
annolid
```

If you need behavior logging or segmentation models, drop your trained weights under `annolid/models` or point the GUI to them through the **Model Manager**.

## Updating or rebuilding
- Upgrade dependencies in-place: `uv pip install -U annolid`.
- Recreate a clean environment: remove `.venv`, repeat the steps above, or run `uv pip sync uv.lock` inside the activated venv to match the locked versions.

## Troubleshooting
- **CUDA / GPU builds:** Ensure the appropriate PyTorch build is available. You can pin versions with `uv pip install "torch==2.2.0" "torchvision==0.17.0"` after the main install.
- **Apple Silicon MKL errors:** Use Python 3.11 and let `uv` fetch arm64 wheels. If MKL still loads, set `export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1` or reinstall with `UV_INDEX_URL=https://pypi.org/simple`.
- **FFmpeg / ffprobe missing:** Install FFmpeg (which bundles `ffprobe`) via Homebrew (`brew install ffmpeg`), apt (`sudo apt install ffmpeg`), or conda-forge (`conda install -c conda-forge ffmpeg`). Make sure the binaries are on your PATH (`which ffprobe` should resolve).
- **`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'zmq'`:** Ensure you are installing with the updated `pyproject.toml` that depends on `pyzmq`. If you already have an environment, run `uv pip install pyzmq` inside it and retry `annolid`.
- **`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'ffpyplayer'`:** The GUI’s real-time widgets use ffpyplayer’s video frame utils. Install it with `uv pip install ffpyplayer` or recreate the environment after pulling the updated dependency list.
- **`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'tree_config'`:** Realtime configs rely on `tree-config`. Install it with `uv pip install tree-config` or rebuild the environment after syncing the latest dependencies.
- **`qtpy.QtBindingsNotFoundError: No Qt bindings could be found`:** Install the GUI extra in the active environment: `uv pip install -e ".[gui]"`.
- **Windows + CUDA 12.x ONNX Runtime DLL/import errors:** In the activated environment, run:
  `uv pip install onnxruntime-gpu --extra-index-url https://aiinfra.pkgs.visualstudio.com/PublicPackages/_packaging/onnxruntime-cuda-12/pypi/simple/`
  If CUDA is not 12.x, install CPU ONNX Runtime instead: `uv pip install onnxruntime`.
- **Polygon edges look noisy:** The mask-to-polygon conversion now uses OpenCV’s Douglas–Peucker simplifier. Adjust `approxpoly_epsilon` in `configs/default_config.yaml` if you need smoother (higher value) or more detailed (lower value) outlines.

You're now ready to track behaviors using the Annolid GUI or the CLI tools (`annolid-track`, `annolid-train`) from the activated `uv` environment.
