docs/one_line_install_choices.md, before:

# One-Line Installer Choices (Detailed Guide)

This guide explains how to choose the right one-line installer command and flags for your setup.

## Default one-liner (most users)

Use this first unless you have a specific requirement.

### macOS / Linux

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.ps1 | iex
```

What the installer does:
- Clones Annolid.
- Creates an isolated environment (`.venv` by default).
- Installs dependencies and Annolid.
- Detects GPU and installs CUDA-enabled PyTorch when appropriate.
- Prompts for optional extras and launch.

## Quick decision table

Choose the flag set that matches your goal.

| Goal | macOS / Linux | Windows (PowerShell) |
|---|---|---|
| Default install | `... | bash` | `... | iex` |
| Skip GPU detection | `... | bash -s -- --no-gpu` | `...; install.ps1 -NoGpu` |
| Non-interactive install | `... | bash -s -- --no-interactive` | `...; install.ps1 -NoInteractive` |
| Install to custom folder | `... | bash -s -- --install-dir /path/to/annolid` | `...; install.ps1 -InstallDir C:\path\to\annolid` |
| Custom venv location | `... | bash -s -- --venv-dir /path/to/.venv` | `...; install.ps1 -VenvDir C:\path\to\.venv` |
| Use Conda env (Linux/macOS only) | `... | bash -s -- --use-conda` | Not supported in `install.ps1` |
| Enable optional extras | `... | bash -s -- --extras sam3,text_to_speech` | `...; install.ps1 -Extras sam3,text_to_speech` |

## Linux/macOS options in detail

`install.sh` supports:
- `--install-dir DIR`
- `--venv-dir DIR`
- `--extras EXTRAS`
- `--no-gpu`
- `--use-conda`
- `--no-interactive`
- `--help`

Examples:

```bash
# Non-interactive CPU-only install to a custom directory
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | \
  bash -s -- --install-dir ~/tools/annolid --no-gpu --no-interactive

# Use Conda instead of venv
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | \
  bash -s -- --use-conda

# Install with optional features
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | \
  bash -s -- --extras sam3,image_editing,text_to_speech
```

## Windows options in detail

`install.ps1` supports:
- `-InstallDir DIR`
- `-VenvDir DIR`
- `-Extras EXTRAS`
- `-NoGpu`
- `-NoInteractive`
- `-Help`

For extra options, run:

```powershell
Get-Help .\install.ps1 -Detailed
```

Examples:

```powershell
# Run installer from local script with explicit options
.\install.ps1 -InstallDir C:\annolid -NoGpu -NoInteractive

# Install optional features
.\install.ps1 -Extras sam3,image_editing,text_to_speech
```

## Optional extras (`--extras` / `-Extras`)

Current supported extras:
- `sam3`
- `image_editing`
- `text_to_speech`
- `qwen3_embedding`

### What each extra is for (with example use cases)

| Extra | Install this when you need... | Example use case |
|---|---|---|
| `sam3` | the SAM3-related segmentation workflow/features in Annolid | You want stronger promptable segmentation on difficult frames and plan to use SAM3 tools in the GUI/CLI pipeline. |
| `image_editing` | diffusion-based image editing/generation dependencies | You are preparing augmented training images (inpainting/background edits) as part of annotation or data curation. |
| `text_to_speech` | built-in narration/read-aloud features | You want captions/notes read aloud during review, accessibility workflows, or hands-free labeling sessions. |
| `qwen3_embedding` | Qwen3-based embedding/multimodal utilities | You plan to run embedding-powered retrieval/comparison flows that rely on the Qwen3 stack. |

### Practical install suggestions

- Minimal install (fastest, lowest dependency footprint): no extras.
- Most common research annotation setup: start with `sam3`.
- Accessibility or narrated review: add `text_to_speech`.
- Data augmentation/image synthesis workflows: add `image_editing`.
- Only install `qwen3_embedding` if you explicitly use those embedding features.

Use comma-separated values with no spaces, for example:

```bash
--extras sam3,text_to_speech
```

## Recommended patterns

- Stable workstation install:
  use default one-liner first, then rerun with flags only if needed.
- Headless or CI environment:
  use `--no-interactive` (and `--no-gpu` if GPU drivers are unavailable).
- Shared lab server:
  set explicit `--install-dir` and `--venv-dir` to avoid confusion.

## GPU and device suggestions

Use this as a practical hardware guide before choosing flags.

| Device / Platform | Recommendation | Suggested installer choice |
|---|---|---|
| NVIDIA GPU workstation (Linux/Windows) | Best performance for training + large-batch inference. Keep CUDA drivers current. | Use default installer (do **not** pass `--no-gpu` / `-NoGpu`). |
| Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3) | Good local inference performance via MPS; stable for many annotation/tracking tasks. | Use default installer on macOS. |
| CPU-only laptop/VM | Works for annotation and light inference, but slower for heavy models. | Use `--no-gpu` (Linux/macOS) or `-NoGpu` (Windows). |
| Shared HPC/server node | Prefer reproducibility and explicit paths/env control. | Use `--no-interactive`, explicit `--install-dir`/`--venv-dir`, optionally `--use-conda`. |

### Device-specific tips

- If you have an NVIDIA GPU, verify drivers and CUDA runtime before install (`nvidia-smi` should work).
- If GPU install fails or is unstable, rerun in CPU mode first (`--no-gpu` / `-NoGpu`) to get a working baseline quickly.
- For remote servers without display, combine `--no-interactive` and CPU mode unless GPU runtime is already validated.
- On Apple Silicon, use native arm64 Python/environment tools for best compatibility and speed.

## Verify installation

After install:

```bash
annolid --help
```

Launch GUI:

```bash
annolid
```

If `annolid` is not found, activate the environment printed by the installer and retry.

## Security note

Piping scripts from the internet is convenient but trust-based. For stricter security:
- download script first,
- inspect it,
- then run locally with explicit options.

Commit message:

fix(installer): ensure Qt GUI bindings are installed and improve missing-Qt UX #62 Include gui extra by default in install.sh and install.ps1 Validate Qt binding availability during installer verification Add launcher fallback for QtBindingsNotFoundError with actionable install hint Update gui extra markers for Python compatibility (PyQt5 on <3.13, PySide6 on >=3.13) Add regression tests for missing-Qt launcher behavior Update README and install docs to use GUI-enabled install commands

docs/one_line_install_choices.md, after:

# One-Line Installer Choices (Detailed Guide)

This guide explains how to choose the right one-line installer command and flags for your setup.

## Default one-liner (most users)

Use this first unless you have a specific requirement.

### macOS / Linux

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.ps1 | iex
```

What the installer does:
- Clones Annolid.
- Creates an isolated environment (`.venv` by default).
- Installs dependencies and Annolid.
- Detects GPU and installs CUDA-enabled PyTorch when appropriate.
- Prompts for optional extras and launch.

## Quick decision table

Choose the flag set that matches your goal.

| Goal | macOS / Linux | Windows (PowerShell) |
|---|---|---|
| Default install | `... | bash` | `... | iex` |
| Skip GPU detection | `... | bash -s -- --no-gpu` | `...; install.ps1 -NoGpu` |
| Non-interactive install | `... | bash -s -- --no-interactive` | `...; install.ps1 -NoInteractive` |
| Install to custom folder | `... | bash -s -- --install-dir /path/to/annolid` | `...; install.ps1 -InstallDir C:\path\to\annolid` |
| Custom venv location | `... | bash -s -- --venv-dir /path/to/.venv` | `...; install.ps1 -VenvDir C:\path\to\.venv` |
| Use Conda env (Linux/macOS only) | `... | bash -s -- --use-conda` | Not supported in `install.ps1` |
| Enable optional extras | `... | bash -s -- --extras sam3,text_to_speech` | `...; install.ps1 -Extras sam3,text_to_speech` |

## Linux/macOS options in detail

`install.sh` supports:
- `--install-dir DIR`
- `--venv-dir DIR`
- `--extras EXTRAS`
- `--no-gpu`
- `--use-conda`
- `--no-interactive`
- `--help`

Examples:

```bash
# Non-interactive CPU-only install to a custom directory
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | \
  bash -s -- --install-dir ~/tools/annolid --no-gpu --no-interactive

# Use Conda instead of venv
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | \
  bash -s -- --use-conda

# Install with optional features
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/healthonrails/annolid/main/install.sh | \
  bash -s -- --extras sam3,image_editing,text_to_speech
```

## Windows options in detail

`install.ps1` supports:
- `-InstallDir DIR`
- `-VenvDir DIR`
- `-Extras EXTRAS`
- `-NoGpu`
- `-NoInteractive`
- `-Help`

For extra options, run:

```powershell
Get-Help .\install.ps1 -Detailed
```

Examples:

```powershell
# Run installer from local script with explicit options
.\install.ps1 -InstallDir C:\annolid -NoGpu -NoInteractive

# Install optional features
.\install.ps1 -Extras sam3,image_editing,text_to_speech
```

## Optional extras (`--extras` / `-Extras`)

`gui` is installed by default by the one-line installers, so `annolid` launches without additional flags.

Current supported extras:
- `sam3`
- `image_editing`
- `text_to_speech`
- `qwen3_embedding`

### What each extra is for (with example use cases)

| Extra | Install this when you need... | Example use case |
|---|---|---|
| `sam3` | the SAM3-related segmentation workflow/features in Annolid | You want stronger promptable segmentation on difficult frames and plan to use SAM3 tools in the GUI/CLI pipeline. |
| `image_editing` | diffusion-based image editing/generation dependencies | You are preparing augmented training images (inpainting/background edits) as part of annotation or data curation. |
| `text_to_speech` | built-in narration/read-aloud features | You want captions/notes read aloud during review, accessibility workflows, or hands-free labeling sessions. |
| `qwen3_embedding` | Qwen3-based embedding/multimodal utilities | You plan to run embedding-powered retrieval/comparison flows that rely on the Qwen3 stack. |

### Practical install suggestions

- Minimal install (fastest, lowest dependency footprint): no extras.
- Most common research annotation setup: start with `sam3`.
- Accessibility or narrated review: add `text_to_speech`.
- Data augmentation/image synthesis workflows: add `image_editing`.
- Only install `qwen3_embedding` if you explicitly use those embedding features.

Use comma-separated values with no spaces, for example:

```bash
--extras sam3,text_to_speech
```

## Recommended patterns

- Stable workstation install:
  use default one-liner first, then rerun with flags only if needed.
- Headless or CI environment:
  use `--no-interactive` (and `--no-gpu` if GPU drivers are unavailable).
- Shared lab server:
  set explicit `--install-dir` and `--venv-dir` to avoid confusion.

## GPU and device suggestions

Use this as a practical hardware guide before choosing flags.

| Device / Platform | Recommendation | Suggested installer choice |
|---|---|---|
| NVIDIA GPU workstation (Linux/Windows) | Best performance for training + large-batch inference. Keep CUDA drivers current. | Use default installer (do **not** pass `--no-gpu` / `-NoGpu`). |
| Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3) | Good local inference performance via MPS; stable for many annotation/tracking tasks. | Use default installer on macOS. |
| CPU-only laptop/VM | Works for annotation and light inference, but slower for heavy models. | Use `--no-gpu` (Linux/macOS) or `-NoGpu` (Windows). |
| Shared HPC/server node | Prefer reproducibility and explicit paths/env control. | Use `--no-interactive`, explicit `--install-dir`/`--venv-dir`, optionally `--use-conda`. |

### Device-specific tips

- If you have an NVIDIA GPU, verify drivers and CUDA runtime before install (`nvidia-smi` should work).
- If GPU install fails or is unstable, rerun in CPU mode first (`--no-gpu` / `-NoGpu`) to get a working baseline quickly.
- For remote servers without display, combine `--no-interactive` and CPU mode unless GPU runtime is already validated.
- On Apple Silicon, use native arm64 Python/environment tools for best compatibility and speed.

## Verify installation

After install:

```bash
annolid --help
```

Launch GUI:

```bash
annolid
```

If `annolid` is not found, activate the environment printed by the installer and retry.

## Security note

Piping scripts from the internet is convenient but trust-based. For stricter security:
- download script first,
- inspect it,
- then run locally with explicit options.
